- [Narrator] So let's take a quick look
at the Executor framework hierarchy.
The first thing is all the Executor interfaces
will reside in the java.util.concurrent package.
That's the package for them.
And there are three main components.
Starting at the top, you have the Executor interface,
which is a basic interface.
And then, down there, you have
a subinterface, which is the ExecutorService.
Now this is the most crucial interfaces
that we generally use in applications.
And, to a further extension,
we have ScheduledExecutorService,
which is, again, a subinterface of ExecutorService.
So, ScheduledExecutorService is exactly the one
which will allow you to schedule jobs
at regular intervals and all of that stuff.
Okay.
So we're going to look at the demos for each one of them.
But before that, let's all to understand
what are Callables and what are Futures.
Now, when we take the demo for thread
and the Runnable APIs, we actually define
the job of the thread inside the run method, right?
I'm sure you recollect that in the thread class
and in the Runnable interface,
there was always this run method in which
we specified the job that the thread has to do.
Now this run method takes no parameters
and neither does it have a return value.
But what if your task that you're trying
to ask the thread to do wants to return something?
So that feature is available in the Callable interface.
The Callable interface has a method declared which is call,
and that allows you to return a generic value V.
And whatever the returned value is,
it can be captured in a Future object, right?
So one of the major differences between
Runnable and Callable is that Callable
allows you to capture return values.
Which means there is definitely some advantage there.
The other difference is Callable's call method
can throw checked exceptions.
What does that mean?
It means that if you can throw checked exceptions,
you can throw tropolcate them down the calling hierarchy.
The Runnable run method does not throw
any kind of exception.
So that's another problem.
Now when you talk about the Executor framework,
yes, it works with both Runnable and Callable objects.
So if you already have a dire requirement
where you need to return something out of the task
that the thread does, then you should go for Callable.
Otherwise, you can stick to Runnable.